Apply: Giving applicants the best chance of success (#1057)
DFE-Digital/bat-design-history: app/posts/apply-for-teacher-training/2023-11-21-interruption-module.md

---
title: Giving applicants the best chance of success

> description: New design pattern that focuses on improving candidates personal statement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: We designed a new pattern that encourages candidates improve their personal statement just before they submit their application
```

tags:
  - applications
  - personal statement
---

![Image of a quote a user has said during user research session ](head-image.png)
We designed and tested a new pattern in Apply for teacher training (Apply).
The new pattern aims to help candidates improve their personal statement before they submit an application, so they have a better chance of being accepted onto a course.

## The issue

We currently stop candidates applying for courses when we are confident a candidate will be rejected. For example, when visa sponsorship is not available for a course they are applying for, but the candidate has said they do not have the right to work or study in the UK.

However, there are other cases where we can help candidates improve their application before they submit. One example of this is when personal statements are too short.

## What we did

We designed a new pattern that ‘interrupts’ the user from submitting an application if their personal statement is less than 500 words.

When a candidate adds an application, they choose their training provider, course and location preference. After they’ve made this selection, they can review and then submit their application.

> We have added an additional step before the candidate can review their application. If the candidate’s personal statement is less than 500 words, they are taken to a different page telling them their personal statement is too short and we ask the candidate if they want to edit their statement or continue without editing. If they choose, they want to edit they would be navigated to the personal statement page, and the application would be saved as a draft until they are ready to submit. If they choose to continue without editing, then they can review their application and submit it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have added an additional step before the candidate can review their application. If the candidate’s personal statement is less than 500 words, they are taken to a different page telling them their personal statement is too short and we ask the candidate if they want to edit their statement or continue without editing. If they want to edit their statement, they would be navigated to the personal statement page, and the application would be saved as a draft until they are ready to submit. If they choose to continue without editing, then they can review their application and submit it.
```
